hi guys my name is J I'm one of the
expert IELTS teachers here at e to
language which by the way is an online
platform for IELTS preparation anything
you need help with whether it be writing
or speaking or listening or reading we
can help you out through tutorials
through our practice materials through
our daily live group classes etc what
we're going to do in this live class is
important one of the things that you
need to be able to do on test day and
one of the things you need to be able to
do quickly is to conjure up a paragraph
structure for your essay okay so imagine
you sit down you look at that essay
prompt the question prompt how are you
going to structure it there are two main
paragraph structures you need to know
before test day okay because there are
seven different question types and of
the seven different question types five
of them require one paragraph structure
two of them require another type of
paragraph structure so you need to know
this before test day so let's have a
look this is for IELTS academic no no no
no no it's not even for academic sorry
shouldn't say academics for IELTS
general and academics for both okay it's
for the birth my mistake there but for
IELTS writing task 2 this is called
essential paragraph structures hold on
to your hat so in today's class I'm
going to quickly go through the 7 essay
types that you might see on test day of
course you will only get one but there
are seven of them we're going to look
number two at the single idea paragraph
structure we're going to look at the
double idea paragraph structure as well
I'm also going to give you a quiz and
you'll also be doing some writing in
this so please get out a pen and a piece
of paper because I'm going to teach you
it's for writing you can't just watch
videos you need to get out your pen and
if you do it once that might even be
enough that might boost your score up to
the score that you need so get out a pen
a piece of paper we'll do it together
I'll talk you through it
okay cool let's get started so there are
seven essay types
ion's that you might see with your
academic or general okay these are the
seven so the first ones called double
question second one agree disagree or to
what extent third one discussed both
views fourth one is discussed both views
and give your opinion the fifth one is
discuss the problems and the solutions
number six is discuss the advantages and
disadvantages and number seven is
discussed the advantages and
disadvantages and give your opinion
about which one you think is best
first of all this is hard because I
think you actually need to practice
writing all seven types because they're
different if you want to score highly on
task achievement in the criteria and to
get up to the six point five seven seven
point five or eight you need to
understand the question types that's the
first step okay let's keep looking at
them I'll give you an example of each so
the double question will look like this
so the question prompt will say
something like blah blah blah blah don't
worry too much about this we'll get to
it but the double question says why they
are students choosing to study online
what can universities do to restricts
attract students back on campus so you
can see two questions there agree
disagree although to what extent
question type says in this little second
part to what extent do you agree or to
what extent do you disagree or do you
agree okay one second my computer is
about to crash no I didn't crash yes it
did thanks computer
here we go we're back discuss both views
this is the third type it just simply
says discuss both views number four says
discuss both views and give your opinion
about which one you think is most
effective fifth one is that's fourth
this is fifth problems and solutions
what do you think are the causes of this
what solutions can you suggest sixth one
discuss the advantages and disadvantages
advantages of online learning for
example and thus the seventh one they
should say seven do the advantages
outweigh the disadvantages I don't want
you to worry too much about those
question types because we have another
video up here which you can watch in
your own time which looks at them in
more depth okay
I just wanted to refresh your
understanding and memory of those seven
different types this leads to something
more important
well maybe not more important as
important that is there are two types of
paragraph structures you need for each
type of essay mmm that didn't sound
right 1 2 3 & 4 the purple ones that's
where you will write to single idea
paragraphs I'm going to show you how to
write those single idea paragraphs in a
second okay now the green ones discuss
the problems and solutions discuss the
advantages and disadvantages
this requires to double idea paragraphs
the main reason being is that it says
discuss the problems and the solutions
you can't just discuss a problem and a
solution so that would be a single idea
paragraph because it requires problems
and solutions advantages and
disadvantages we need to put two ideas
into the one paragraph okay
let's firstly think about single idea
paragraphs so this will be for the
double question for example let's let's
look at this one every year more and
more students choose to study online
rather than attend classes on campus why
are students choosing to study online
what can universities do to attract
students back on campus okay
so you could have one paragraph here
this would be your paragraph one and
you'll have a single idea about why
maybe if effectiveness or maybe they're
choosing to study online because of
convenience you'll describe one idea in
depth
and number two what can universities do
to attract students back on campus they
can decrease the cost or they can
subsidize transport something like that
okay agree disagree
to what extent studying online is more
effective than studying on campus to
what extent do you agree well you would
have single idea paragraphs let me skip
through this this is boring let me just
get to the structure here the single
idea paragraph structure okay this is
important so one sentence one you want
to introduce the first idea okay you
want to introduce that first idea the
single idea a single idea that it that's
your opening sentence sentences two and
three you will explain that first idea
by giving reasons sentences four and
five you will give examples or an
example or examples of that first idea
that's your evidence and then sentence
number six you refer back to the first
idea let me take you through an example
one here okay I'm gonna do it sentence
by sentence I'll read it to you so we
need an opening sentence which is a
single idea introduces a single idea
studying online is much more effective
than attending campus that is wrong I'm
so sorry that should say convenient this
is the problem of when you create these
slides just imagine that that says
convenient okay because this paragraph
in fact is about convenience I would
lose points if I made that mistake
convenience ok convenience studying
online is much more convenient than
attending campus that's my opening
sentence now I need to explain it
students do not have to leave their
homes to listen to lectures or
participate in tutorials there's a
grammar mistake they can even interact
with fellow peers just by using their
laptops that's another reason now I
moved into my example for example while
online causes courses used to target
working professionals who couldn't
attend class
they now target anyone because
universities have realized that people
are time poor again related to
convenience and then I need a closing
sentence that refers back to my opening
sentence about convenience in short
because of the enormous time savings
that online courses allow people prefer
it rather than attending face-to-face
classes so let's just get this right so
if that said convenience which it should
have that was my mistake I'm sorry
convenience much more convenient okay so
that the idea the single idea is
convenience okay so let's look at this
second one they do not have to leave
their homes okay they now target anyone
because universities have realized that
people are time poor in short because of
the enormous time savings okay and my
reasons also linked back to convenience
there so this is a single idea paragraph
about convenience your turn hopefully
you can write a better paragraph than
mine I'm gonna give you five minutes I
probably did mine in two I want you to
write now a single idea paragraph okay
I'll talk you through it I'll talk you
through it so get out your pen and paper
here we go so this is going to relate to
the discuss both views question imagine
you get this on test day it says some
people believe that studying online is
more effective than studying on campus
while others disagree okay so your first
paragraph I want you to discuss the
first view which is that studying online
is more effective okay
studying online is more effective than
studying on campus so I want you to
write a single idea paragraph you
introduce the first idea you explain the
first idea why is it more effective give
examples of why it's more effective and
refer back to that first idea of why
it's more effective okay
see how you go I don't want you to write
four sentences I want you to write this
ones one Center
try and write two here for the reasons
you can write one or two here for the
example of evidence and one here so I
want you to write one two three four
five or six sentences your time starts
now
you
cool all right I'm gonna look at the
chat and I'm gonna read some out now I
hope that I'm just seeing single ideas
such as convenience or effectiveness or
whatever it is extrapolated which means
you take that one idea and you just
build on it that single idea and you
flesh out the one idea don't put other
ideas in don't want multiple ideas we'll
talk about the double idea paragraph
next let's have a look so I'm just gonna
read the opening sentence of each of
your paragraphs and hopefully we can get
the the main idea from it what do you
what's this paragraph going to be about
many people nowadays believe that taking
courses online is more beneficial than
attending classes in person okay it was
not nice but I want to know why discuss
both views some people believe that
studying online is more effective than
studying on campus okay that one's about
convenience i from the second sentence
convenience is another one here
okay I'm gonna read one that is not good
okay and I'll tell you why so studying
online is very effective rather than
studying on campus it saves time and
also it saves money how many ideas we
got here we've got effectiveness we've
got convenience and we've got cost
saving so in fact we've got three ideas
into this one paragraph No choose one
let's say you choose cost saving okay
let's say you're discussing both views
so you say online studying is far less
expensive than attending campus that's
your single idea
now you will flesh it out now you will
say okay it's far less expensive than
studying on campus I need some reasons
why the reasons why I because you can
study on your computer rather than going
to rather than going to campus campus
canvases cost a fortune to maintain for
example the University of Melbourne
campuses cost 1 billion dollars per year
to maintain including the technology in
the classrooms studying online you just
need your laptop
therefore it is far less expensive and
possibly preferable to online study
right you flesh out that one idea that's
the idea of this paragraph here good
though you have to make mistakes to
learn sometimes let's now talk about
these double idea paragraphs because you
may need to write one depending on these
prompts here the first prompt if you get
problems and solutions you must write a
double paragraph structure let me tell
you why by reading the prompt ready
every year more and more students choose
to study online rather than attend
classes on campus what do you think of
the causes of this what solutions can
you suggest why do I need to write a
double paragraph double idea paragraph
structure here well let's have a look
first of all this will become my
paragraph 1 what do you think of the
causes and this will become my paragraph
2 what solutions can you suggest now it
says here what are the causes
and it says here what solutions if you
give one solution and one course you
will be marked down you need to talk
about causes and solutions but you need
to talk about solutions in the one
paragraph and you need to talk about
causes in the one paragraph therefore
we're gonna need a double idea paragraph
right have you got me this is what the
IELTS examiner's do and this is how they
trick you this is how they mark you down
you need to be more intelligent you need
to outsmart them also look at this one
advantages and disadvantages some people
believe that studying online is more
effective than studying on campus while
others disagree discuss the advantages
and disadvantages of online learning
it does not say discuss the advantage
and disadvantage
it says discuss the advantages plural
more than one we need a double idea
paragraph for this as well the last one
of course is advantages and
disadvantages plus your opinion it's the
same as the one before okay let's look
at the double idea paragraph structure
this is the kind of paragraph you want
to write first sentence you'll introduce
the set of ideas for example the
advantages you're going then in your
second sentence explain the first
advantage third sentence you'll give
example of the first idea or the
evidence then you'll explain a second
idea or the second advantage give an
example and then refer back to the first
two ideas so basically if you look at
this structure it looks complex but just
forget the introduction and the closing
because they're basically the same what
you do is you explain give an example
explain give an example ok and these two
sentences almost are the same so it
looks confusing but let's go through one
sentence by sentence so have a look at
this first sentence there are two
primary reasons why studying online is
more advantageous than attending classes
on campus
so this paragraph will contain two ideas
there are two reasons or two advantages
okay firstly it is far more convenient
students do not have to travel in order
to attend a lecture or tutorial give me
some example and evidence some evidence
for example students can simply log into
the university's websites to study my
grammar here needs a shake-up I'm sorry
about this I wrote it too quickly second
idea secondly online learning is much
more effective okay let's go back
the first idea was about convenience
secondly online learning is more
effective the second idea is
effectiveness indeed online learning has
been increasing in effectiveness since
the late 1990s
evidence what's your evidence Jai well
one research article suggests that it's
now so it now supersedes face-to-face
learning by 16% okay wrap it up Jay this
should mirror your opening sentence
overall online learning is better than
on-campus learning because of its
convenience and effectiveness right cool
I hope that's clear so I've got the two
ideas I've got one about convenience and
one about effectiveness my opening
sentence said that I would say that my
closing sentence reminded my reader of
what those two ideas were your turn I
want you to write a double idea
paragraph so I'm sorry I've made too
many mistakes I'm gonna fix this one I'm
gonna fix this one give me please give
me just give me a second advantages this
advantageous that'll make sense now good
okay advantages and disadvantages so
it's test day and you receive this
question prompt which says some people
believe that studying online is more
effective than studying on campus while
others disagree what are the advantages
and disadvantages of online learning
okay well you can talk about either the
advantages or disadvantages but I want
you to put two ideas into your paragraph
using this structure okay your time
starts now you have five minutes to do
so
you
okay yogi um a few things first of all
on test day you're going to have extreme
pressure on you right that clock's
ticking out the front you've got a
pencil a piece of paper you probably
need to go to the bathroom you haven't
eaten for hours you feel terrible you
need to make decisions in this exam
probably one of the most critical
decisions you can make is which
paragraph structure will I use because
if you get the advantages/disadvantages
essay prompt and you write a single idea
paragraph you will automatically be
marked down because you have not
answered the question properly so anyway
it's just important it's just important
to make sure you you just before you
start writing just just stop before you
start writing really the question prompt
thoroughly make a little plan you can't
change your plan as you go along don't
freak out if you can't change your plan
but just keep in mind how important it
is to get the right paragraph structure
for that for the for the particular
question prompt that's all that's all
alright I'm just gonna have a quick look
at your paragraphs and I just want to
see what the two ideas are okay here we
go there are two main meinen where's my
pens image okay here we go there are two
main advantages of why studying online
is the fairest way than on campus okay
it wasn't about fairness it was about
effectiveness so you would have
automatically lost marks
first of all it's more convenient
blah-blah-blah-blah good if you had one
I can't see the rest of it okay
somebody's written it's more
cost-effective and more effective
excellent
like it's cheaper and more effective
great okay good somebody's written the
same thing it's cheaper and more
convenient or similar thing excellent
okay somebody's written it's cheaper I
can't see your second idea there imagine
I'm the IELTS examiner this is what I'm
going to be doing I'm going to quickly
scan your paragraph I'm gonna sort of
pay attention to grammar but I'm gonna
say okay okay one advantage to do know
second advantage score down okay this is
really the IELTS examiner's spend is it
is it three minutes per task or
something I think they get paid $3 per
writing to mark they spend very little
time looking at it they just scan their
eyes over grammars good okay let's have
a look at these paragraphs
how many advantages do to excellent okay
good and what about disadvantages what
only one poor mark down just that's
that's that's how it works that's how it
works
cool let's do a quiz so let's say it's
test day I'm going to show you a
question prompt I want you to type into
the chat which paragraph structure you
should use ready single idea or double
idea
you
let's have a look let's have a look good
nice nice nice nice why why are you
going to use the double idea paragraph
here because it says advantages and
disadvantages and you have to discuss
both okay
that's why good well then excellent quiz
- ready hmm actually let me make this a
little bit more difficult I'm gonna
delete the title off the top of the
slides and you don't know what it is
evil teacher well I'm gonna prepare you
for the real world I think all right all
right all right ready in which paragraph
structure single or double alright you
should be I don't get that in a set in a
second by looking at it yes good nice
nice nice
double correct why let's have a look at
it you need to use the double idea
paragraph because your first paragraph
is going to be about causes B there's
more than one your second paragraph will
be about solutions but there's more than
one okay so we use the double idea
paragraph great next question quiz time
and you get this one on test day
okay what have you got
go ahead single let's have a look at
this this is a confusing one I purposely
put this in because I wanted to trick
you but you're too smart but let's have
a look okay some people believe that
studying online is more effective than
studying on campus while others disagree
so this one is about effectiveness about
whether it works or not until what
degree does it work studying online in
terms of teaching you now discuss both
views and give your opinion about which
one you think is most effective okay so
your paragraph one is going to be about
online learning and its effectiveness
okay you can't talk about convenience
here because it's not about convenience
is asking about effectiveness paragraph
two will be about on campus on campus
studying and the effectiveness of on
campus studying I guess you could write
well no no it's better to write a single
idea paragraph about effectiveness of
online learning and then a second
paragraph a single idea paragraph about
the effectiveness of on campus learning
okay
that would be a much better way to do
this and the idea of writing that single
idea paragraph and really pulling out
the reasons and the examples focused on
that single idea of effectiveness of
online learning for example let me give
you an example let's say my opening my
first paragraph says because I have to
discuss both views and it says online
learning is incredibly effective okay
now I need reasons why reasons why
you know many cognitive scientists have
worked for decades on improving the
effectiveness of online learning in
addition the technology is good enough
to enable people to learn more
effectively okay all about effectiveness
now I need some evidence evidence I'll
make it up one research paper from
Harvard University suggests that online
learning is 86 percent more effective
than actually studying on campus now I
need a closing sentence about
effectiveness overall online learning is
an extremely effective way to learn in
the modern world something like that ok
fine
that's paragraph one paragraph two I
need to talk about the effectiveness of
on-campus study so oh now I'll say
something like studying on campus is
also an effective way to learn ok I'm
not saying which one's better yet I'll
do that in the conclusion so now I need
reasons by studying on campus is
effective not only can you meet
face-to-face with the lecturer and the
professor but you can also interact with
your peers who will help you to learn
okay great great great now I need some
evidence according to a recent poll 22%
of students said that they preferred
online uhsorry
on-campus learning because of it was
more effective than studying on the
computer
overall studying on campus is an
effective way to learn whatever okay you
can see I put my to now if we look
closely at this one again it also asked
me from my opinion I will put that into
the conclusion I might even put it into
the into the introduction but I'll say
you know despite on-campus learning the
very effective online learning is more
effective where is the most effective
blah blah blah cool one more quiz which
type of paragraph would you use here a
single idea or a double idea
you
single the answer single death the
answer single good good good let me just
quickly clarify why okay again studying
online is more effective than studying
on campus okay so I'm gonna write one
paragraph about studying on lines
effectiveness okay and I'm gonna write
one paragraph about studying on campuses
effectiveness now I can't talk about
convenience or cost saving because
that's not what it's asking me about
it's about asking with which one is more
effective and and then I also have to
say to what extent do I agree or
disagree so in my conclusion I will also
put my opinion sure right
that was pretty tricky stuff don't worry
if you're feeling confused if you are
feeling confused and you feel like you
need to clarify you feel like you need
help check out this website make
yourself a free account think about
upgrading your account for some
tutorials tutorials we also give
feedback on your writing so if you want
to write an essay and submit it to us
you do that through the platform you can
also come along and join our live
classes which happen every Monday
Tuesday Wednesday and Thursday nights a
whole lot of practice material on there
as well as well as methods lessons and
more okay
does that make you feel better or worse
just type into the chat better or worse
after that little lecture better or
worse
better good good very useful all right
yeah
well it's interesting isn't it you know
it's actually it's taken I've been
looking at this ions test for like
literally a year and thinking this if
you think you're just gonna go and take
the IELTS and get an 8 I think you're
kidding yourself even if you're a native
English speaker you need to understand
all the different question types you
need to think about okay what structures
will I use on test day I really think
you ought to put yourself under test
conditions and practice as well because
it's one thing to stay and to be at home
and to be relaxed and have a cup of tea
and think oh I'm gonna write an essay on
the computer and practice for my IELTS
and you type an essay it's very
different on test day when you have a
pencil you have a piece of paper you
have time pressure you may need you know
you're tired you're not feeling a
hundred percent and you have to use not
only that you start at nine o'clock in
the morning you have to switch your
brain on straightaway make sure you
drink lots of coffee but not too much
coffee because then you need to go to
the bathroom it's problematic
Erica Jay what we are IELTS
second test scores okay
what am I gonna say to you what am I
gonna say is your teacher and I've taken
the IELTS why first time I get sick and
time I got can I please wait to tell you
I want to wait because I don't want you
to lose faith in me as a teacher I don't
know I mean I do know I've taken his
test for the third time I took it last
week for the third time and the third
time hopefully third time lucky I the
third time I felt very good about what
I'd written I really I really sat there
I finished and I thought oh great
did it really nice really nice pass one
task to don't think I could have written
it any better the second one I to be
honest with you I felt terrible on test
day not sick I just I don't know I I
slipped for about two hours I I was
nervous I felt really nervous in there
which was really strange because maybe I
do have a lot riding on this being there
you know the IELTS teacher look I will
tell you but I want to wait until I get
my third test result because then I feel
like I'll get a really high one and I
can say don't worry about my second one
you can still trust me
don't get scared I look and also I think
there is an element of is a beautiful
word arbitrariness to this I really do
think that sometimes you just get an
examiner who for whatever reason doesn't
like your handwriting they need to go to
the bathroom they are quick I'll quickly
do this to do or maybe they don't
understand how profound you really are
and your essay was far too philosophical
I don't know look I think with language
testing then if how accurate language
testing is so you can use computer-based
testing which I think there's a lot of
promise in computer-based testing anyway
I don't want to go into it I'm sorry
I'll wait till I get my third score and
then I'll tell you I promise I promise
I'll tell you then but I can't tell you
now because you hate me okay
any questions
you
Christiane's Tintin tan says I failed my
PT e twice
well the PT who's got a similar thing
with speaking where it's incredibly
strict for speaking any questions and on
tomorrow is my exam give me some tips
just watch all the videos on YouTube
there are none unless you're a paid
member and you shouldn't practice my man
okay okay alright here's a question
sorry here's a question about the
agree/disagree question type to what
extent do you agree or disagree good
question it says it just asked to what
extent do you agree can if it says to
what extent do you agree can you also
talk about disagree yes you can because
as long as it's just in your conclusion
and maybe your introduction as well that
you put your opinion in your say I
completely agree with the prompt now you
might for example write a paragraph that
says you know let's let's take a
question pumpkin says studying online is
more effective than studying at
university okay fine so there's an
opinion to what extent do you agree or
disagree and I'd say I completely agree
that studying online is now more
effective than studying at university
okay so that might be my first paragraph
second paragraph I can say despite this
there are reasons why some people think
that studying on campus is more
effective for example blah blah blah and
then in my conclusion I can go back and
say you know despite the arguments of
why studying on camera this could be
more effective studying online is more
effective anyway yes you can you can do
for for against against for against
against for just like that
okay here's a good question for the
evidence can you just make up statistics
yes you can of course you don't have
access to a library so you can just use
your imagination you can say a recent
study from Harvard University suggests
that 96% of people prefer online
learning because of its convenience okay
so you can make that up or you can just
make up a statistic and just say
it's better if you reference a
university or research body to say
Harvard University to Harvard University
blah blah blah J do I have to pay for
the evaluation of writing yes we don't
do it for free
unfortunately whereas we couldn't do
this at all
cool all right
I'm gonna try something with you guys if
you don't mind I'm gonna send you a link
where you can donate a little bit of
money
whatever you feel is okay by you whether
it's $1 or $2 or $10 whatever okay I
just want to do this as an experiment
I'm gonna send you an email everyone who
attended this live class and I'll put it
on YouTube too if you want to contribute
a little bit of money to eat you
language to keep us going to keep us
producing great materials so you don't
have to suffer through your exams then
click on that link and I'll be surprised
if if you do contribute something okay
cool
thanks guys I'll see you soon and good
luck in your exams
you